README.md, before:

Desktop Java and Android Java simple example projects.

These are demo projects that enhance documentation for Java and Android:

https://docs.cossacklabs.com/pages/java-and-android-howto/

# How to run?

### Java example

1. Install Themis Core ([see below](#for-desktop-java)).
2. Open `java-example` in IntelliJ IDEA.
3. Run `main.java`.

_Note_: if you want to use bundled (or copied) `lib/libthemis_jni.{so or dylib}`
you will have to add `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=lib` (even better, use the absolute path to `lib`)
to environment variables of the `Application` `main` configuration, so the JVM
will be able to find it.

If you cannot run the example app because of error like this
```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: <some path>/libthemis_jni.so: libthemis.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
you will have to add `/usr/local/lib` (or wherever the `libthemis` is stored)
to the same `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` variable. You can combine two directories like this:
`LD_LIBRARY_PATH=lib:/usr/local/lib` (just separate with `:`).
This magic variable may be used on both Linux and macOS.

### Android example

1. Open `android-example`, import as Android Studio project.
2. Included library Themis for Android via bintray maven repository (see below).
3. Run `MainActivitySecureCell` as secure data storage or `MainActivitySecureMessage` to see secure messaging example.

# What are these examples?

Client code (both Android and Java) contains simple example for symmetric and asymmetric encryption.

1. Symmetric encryption using Themis Secure Cell. Open `main` file for Java and `MainActivitySecureCell` for Android.

```
encryptDataForStoring()
```

1.1 Create SecureCell with desired password:

```
SecureCell sc = new SecureCell(passKey);
```

1.2. Encrypt data. You will get base64 encoded string as output in console.

```
SecureCellData encryptedData = sc.protect(password, optionalContext, message);
String encryptedDataString = Base64.getEncoder().encodeToString(encryptedData.getProtectedData());
```

1.3. Decrypt data previously encrypted. You will get original message as output in console.

```
byte[] decodedEncryptedString = Base64.getDecoder().decode(encryptedDataString);
SecureCellData encryptedDataFromString = new SecureCellData(decodedEncryptedString, null);

byte[] unprotected = sc.unprotect(password, optionalContext, encryptedDataFromString);
String decryptedString = new String(unprotected);
```

2. Asymmetric encryption using Themis Secure Message.

2.1 For Java, see `main` file:

```
encryptDataForMessaging
```

2.2 For Android, see `MainActivitySecureMessage` file:

```
secureMessageLocal
```


# Themis Interactive simulator

Both examples contains ready-to-use solutions to test asymmetric encryption with Themis Interactive Server. No need to run your own server to check if you have implemented encryption correctly.

For Java check `SMessageClient` and `SSessionClient`. For Android check `MainActivitySecureMessage` and `MainActivitySecureSession`.

Comprehenvise documentation can be found below: https://docs.cossacklabs.com/simulator/interactive/


# How to install Themis

### For Desktop Java

Normally you will only need to install Themis Core [from repositories](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/pages/documentation-themis/#installing-themis-core). Major operating systems are supported.

This example project already includes prebuilt Themis JNI library for modern 64-bit Linux and macOS systems.

If this does not work, you may need to build Themis from source code:
1. Follow [these instructions](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/languages/java/installation-desktop/) to build Themis JNI library.
   You will also need to build the JAR.
2. Copy Themis JNI library (`build/libthemis_jni.*`) into the `java-example/lib` directory.
3. Copy Themis JAR (`src/wrappers/themis/java/build/libs/java-themis-*.jar`)
   into the `java-example/lib` directory and make sure `build.gradle` contains the same file name.
   Both `classpath` and `implementation` lines should be updated.

### For Android

1. Add bintray repository into your repositories from **`build.gradle`**

```
repositories {
    google()
    jcenter()
    maven { url "https://dl.bintray.com/cossacklabs/maven/" }
}
```

2. Link to themis from **`app/build.gradle`**

```
dependencies {
     // ....
    implementation 'com.cossacklabs.com:themis:+' // better to check which version is current latest and link to it
}
```

Commit message:

Update README, remove libraries bundled with Java example
* Tell users they gonna need both `libthemis` and `libthemis_jni` to run
  desktop Java example
* Fix few typos in README
* Remove `java-example/lib/libthemis_jni.{so,dylib}`

README.md, after:

Desktop Java and Android Java simple example projects.

These are demo projects that enhance documentation for Java and Android:

https://docs.cossacklabs.com/pages/java-and-android-howto/

# How to run?

### Java example

1. Install Themis Core and Themis JNI library ([see below](#for-desktop-java)).
2. Open `java-example` in IntelliJ IDEA.
3. Run `main.java`.

_Note_: If you cannot run the example app because of error like this
```
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.UnsatisfiedLinkError: <some path>/libthemis_jni.so: libthemis.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
you will have to add `LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib` (or wherever the `libthemis` is stored)
to environment variables of the `Application` `main` configuration, so the JVM
will be able to find it. This magic variable may be used on both Linux and macOS.

If `libthemis_jni.so` is the one it cannot find, you may want to try adding JVM
option `java.library.path=/path/to/dir_with_libthemis_jni.so`.

### Android example

1. Open `android-example`, import as Android Studio project.
2. Included library Themis for Android via bintray maven repository (see below).
3. Run `MainActivitySecureCell` as secure data storage or `MainActivitySecureMessage` to see secure messaging example.

# What are these examples?

Client code (both Android and Java) contains simple example for symmetric and asymmetric encryption.

1. Symmetric encryption using Themis Secure Cell. Open `main` file for Java and `MainActivitySecureCell` for Android.

```
encryptDataForStoring()
```

1.1 Create SecureCell with desired password:

```
SecureCell sc = new SecureCell(passKey);
```

1.2. Encrypt data. You will get base64 encoded string as output in console.

```
SecureCellData encryptedData = sc.protect(password, optionalContext, message);
String encryptedDataString = Base64.getEncoder().encodeToString(encryptedData.getProtectedData());
```

1.3. Decrypt data previously encrypted. You will get original message as output in console.

```
byte[] decodedEncryptedString = Base64.getDecoder().decode(encryptedDataString);
SecureCellData encryptedDataFromString = new SecureCellData(decodedEncryptedString, null);

byte[] unprotected = sc.unprotect(password, optionalContext, encryptedDataFromString);
String decryptedString = new String(unprotected);
```

2. Asymmetric encryption using Themis Secure Message.

2.1 For Java, see `main` file:

```
encryptDataForMessaging
```

2.2 For Android, see `MainActivitySecureMessage` file:

```
secureMessageLocal
```


# Themis Interactive simulator

Both examples contain ready-to-use solutions to test asymmetric encryption with Themis Interactive Server.
No need to run your own server to check if you have implemented encryption correctly.

For Java check `SMessageClient` and `SSessionClient`. For Android check `MainActivitySecureMessage` and `MainActivitySecureSession`.

Comprehensive documentation can be found below: https://docs.cossacklabs.com/simulator/interactive/


# How to install Themis

### For Desktop Java

Normally you will only need to install
[Themis Core](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/installation/installation-from-packages/#installing-themis-from-packages)
and [Themis JNI lib](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/languages/java/installation-desktop/) from repositories.
Major operating systems are supported.

This example project already includes prebuilt Themis JAR library so only those
two packages are expected to be installed.

If this does not work, you may need to build Themis from source code:
1. Follow [these instructions](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/installation/installation-from-sources/)
   to build Themis Core.
2. Follow [these instructions](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/languages/java/installation-desktop/)
   to build Themis JNI library. You will also need to build the JAR.
3. Copy Themis JAR (`src/wrappers/themis/java/build/libs/java-themis-*.jar`)
   into the `java-example/lib` directory and make sure `build.gradle` contains the same file name.
   Both `classpath` and `implementation` lines should be updated.

### For Android

1. Add bintray repository into your repositories from **`build.gradle`**

```
repositories {
    google()
    jcenter()
    maven { url "https://dl.bintray.com/cossacklabs/maven/" }
}
```

2. Link to themis from **`app/build.gradle`**

```
dependencies {
     // ....
    implementation 'com.cossacklabs.com:themis:+' // better to check which version is current latest and link to it
}
```
